So next, we're going to look at how we leverage the AWS Console,
and we're specifically looking at the browser version of this
and not the mobile app version of the console.
So here, over the course of this demo, here's what we're going to be doing.
We're first going to be accessing the AWS Console in the browser,
and then we'll be talking about the login
differences between root and IAM users.
We'll be introducing this concept here within this demo.
Then, we'll look at how we select a specific region,
and then we will be reviewing the list of services that
are supported within the AWS Console.
Now, I'm here at the Root user sign in for the AWS Console.
Now, it's important to note that the root user is a special kind of user.
It was the user that was created when you initially created the AWS account,
and it has special permissions that no other account has,
including things like selecting a support plan and deleting the account.
Now in this case, if you're here,
you need to be sure that you're using the root user to log in.
Now, there is another type of user that can access the AWS Console,
and that is an IAM user, and we'll talk more about IAM later within this path.
However, in this case,
I'm going to be able to log in, I'm going to take my password, I'll sign in,
and then here I have it currently set up for multi‑factor authentication,
and that means I'm going to have to enter in a special code in addition to
my password to be able to log in. So I'll enter in the code, and now I'm
logged in to the AWS Console. Now at a high level, there's a few things I
want to point out.
One of them is here, you can clearly see my user information,
and if I pull down on this,
I'll be able to go in and look at the high‑level information for this account,
including the account, the organization,
which we've talked some about, as well as the billing dashboard.
I can see all of my invoices,
and I can go look at my security credentials if I need to change those.
In addition to this,
we also have a drop‑down next to that for selecting the AWS region.
So here, I've currently selected N. Virginia,
which is us‑east‑1, but we can see that there are many different
regions, and we've already talked about the AWS global infrastructure
and the different regions that are supported.
But in this case,
if I were to now switch over and select us‑east‑2, any of the resources
that I launched here within the console would be launched within the Ohio
region as opposed to the N. Virginia region.
Now, for most all services, this matters.
There are a few services that don't, and we'll talk
about those in just a minute.
Now, the next thing I want to do is I want to look at the Services
drop‑down. From here, you can see a list of all AWS services,
and they're currently grouped according to category.
For example, you can see the Compute category,
which has EC2 and Lightsail, and ECR, and ECS, and EKS,
and several more, and we'll talk more about those in an upcoming module.
But this gives us a high level way of looking at the
services based on their category.
However, we can also choose to go in and search for a service.
For example, if I wanted to look at a service like Lambda,
I could simply type that in, and you can see a list here
of services that include Lambda. Now, in this case,
we would be looking here just for Lambda. And if we click on it,
we would go into the console for this specific service.
Now, next,
we can also go back to the home page and there also is a search box that
is included here within the home page of the console.
And so we could go in here and we could type in a service like rds,
which is Relational Database Service.
Now, in this case,
we also can look at recent services that we have
launched here within the console,
which include Lambda, and Trusted Adviser, and Cost Explorer.
And so,
if you're working within a small handful of services, this can be a
very quick way to simply click on these and actually launch into those
specific services. Now, I'm going to search for a service called Route
53, and I'll click on Route 53.
Now,
one of the things that I want to point out here as we go into this
service, and this is AWS' DNS service, is that this is one of the few
services where the region doesn't matter.
You'll notice here that it says global as opposed to region.
And it says here that Route 53 does not require region selection.
So you can note when you're working with services whether
or not they are global services or whether or not they are
region‑specific services.
So now I'll navigate back to the home page of the console. And the
last thing that I want to point out is we can go here within our
user and go to Security Credentials.
So here, we can go in as the root user, and we can update our password.
You can turn on multi‑factor authentication, which we'll do later
within this path. You also can configure access keys, and access
keys will be where we pick up our next demo when we're looking at leveraging the SDK and the CLI.